# Visualization


This file contains seven examples of visualisation:
* Histograms
* 2D and 3D scatter plot 
* Parallel Coordinates
* Andrews Curves
* Box Plot
* MatPlotLib's .imshow() method

### Data
[Dataset](https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/seeds) is generated by recording X-Ray measurements of various wheat kernels.


 
### Technology

* python: 3.6.1
* pandas library: 0.20.1
* matplotlib library: 2.0.2


### Description of each visualization option

 ***Histograms*** help to understand the distribution of feature in dataset. This allows to see in which domain features are located, and how many records exist there.
 
 ***2D scatter plots*** are used to visually inspect the data. We must use two features of data and then we can understand how our data is located or is there a correlation  between features.

 ***3D scatter plot*** has the same use as 2D scatter plot but  there  is a way to visualize the relationship between three variables simultaneously. 

 ***Parallel Coordinates*** are a higher dimensional technique of visualization because they allow you to easily view observations with more than three dimensions, simply by tacking on additional parallel coordinates. They are similar to scatter plots in that each axis maps to the ordered, numeric domain of a feature. But instead of having axes aligned in an orthogonal manner, their axes being arranged vertically and in parallel. It allows one to see clusters in data and to estimate other statistics visually. 

 ***Andrews curves*** helps to visualize high dimensional, multivariate data as a large number of curves. In this case we can visualize data clustering.

 ***Box Plot*** can visualize the distribution of numerical values within each column in dataset through their quartiles.

 ***MatPlotLib's .imshow( ) method*** is another high dimensional visualization technique.  This command generates an image based off of the normalized values, stored in a matrix or rectangular array of float64s.





### Getting starded

* Download this file or copy repository.

* Open file in your IDE for PYTHON.

* Run file.



 **Have fun!**